Hey you!

Thanks for coming to speak to us at the fresher's fair. Fancy a spot of skydiving? Come to our Give it a Go event (https://www.facebook.com/events/1575815956047547/).

Not sure if our amazing sport is for you? Read on...


G.I.A.G (Give It A Go) Event - 29th September

On the 29th of September, we're holding an event giving you a chance to find out more about what we do, ask questions and more importantly, watch some awesome skydiving videos and make some new friends (we're really nice people, honest).

The GIAG will take place at The Fenton (http://thefentonleeds.com/Contact - a few minutes walk from Leeds University) at 8PM and we'll be heading out to the fine bars and clubs of Leeds afterwards.

Still unsure? This event is a must! It's one of our biggest events of the year and it's all about you! If you have any questions or you're not sure about joining, make sure you come along.

Facebook event: https://www.facebook.com/events/1575815956047547/


Socials

We host weekly socials that are usually at a pub, so we can talk about skydiving and have a few drinks (read: a lot of drinks) before going out into Leeds! We've got loads of other socials planned including Otley Runs, Laser-quest, Go-Karting and much, much more.
Check our Facebook group (https://www.facebook.com/groups/shockabrah) to stay updated.


So, what about the skydiving?

There are two options / courses that will help you become a qualified skydiver:


Static line (RAPS) course

After a day of training (ground school), your first skydive (at a stomach turning 3,500ft) has you jumping with a static line that opens the parachute for you. Once open, an instructor will help guide you safely to the ground with a radio.

As you advance through RAPS / static line system, you'll gain further skills and jump from higher altitudes. Your final student jumps will be from 13,500ft (2.56 miles above the ground), where you'll proceed to become a qualified skydiver!
It takes a minimum of 16 jumps to qualify with this method.

This course is &pound;175 for the ground school and includes one free jump. A second jump is &pound;20, with each further jump costing around &pound;36.


Accelerated Freefall (AFF)

Initially, you jump with two instructors but as you progress this reduces to one and the final instructed AFF jump is a solo skydive! It'll take 8 jumps with instructors and 10 solo jumps to qualify through AFF.
As this is an intensive course with more dedicated feedback and coaching, it carries a larger price tag and is approximately &pound;1200 for the basic course including 9 jumps.

Because AFF is expensive, we suggest you speak to a member of the committee before booking to ensure it's right for you.


Life after becoming a qualified skydiver

After you qualify, jumps will cost around &pound;16-18 and you can use both the club parachutes and also the equipment of several other university clubs (after purchasing kit hire).
You'll work towards further progression, allowing you to jump with friends and become a skygod!


Safety

Skydiving is an 'extreme' sport and with every extreme sport there are risks. However, many measures are taken to reduce these risks.
All parachute systems include a second (reserve) parachute that can be used if the main parachute malfunctions.
These are packed specially by a highly qualified parachute packer every 6 months and are designed to open reliably and safely.
That said, most of the club have never had to use a reserve parachute - even with hundreds of jumps.

All parachute systems are also fitted with an Automatic Activation Device (AAD) that deploys the reserve parachute for you if you aren't able to.

On top of the above, you will be rigorously trained so that you are prepared in the event of an emergency.


Contact

E-mail us: leedsskydivers@gmail.com

For course bookings, you can contact our RAPS secretary directly on Facebook. Jim Dickinson on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/jimbroze?fref=ts
